%YAML 1.1
---
blog: True
title: Office Zen
date: 2013-09-17T12:00:00Z
summary: A review of "Peopleware"
template: writing.j2

---
<img class='book' src='peopleware.jpg'>

For developers who need to get things done, the work environment is often a
frustrating place. Many workers experience constant interruption from meetings,
coworkers, telephone calls, email alerts, IM pop-up windows, etc. These
interruptions prevent developers from doing real work. After finishing
Peopleware, I feel that I have observed the potential for Zen in office life.

DeMarco and Lister break down in detail why so many office environments suck.
From my point of view, the environment encompasses people, relationships,
physical space, and culture.

What resonated strongly with me was the authors' description of poor physical
work spaces and the tyranny of "The Furniture Police." Companies make decisions
about office space by focusing on the financials without considering all the
impacts on employees. The people in charge of these workspace projects (a.k.a.
The Furniture Police) get the chance to dictate where teams will operate. This
leads to high density, noisy cubicle environments which are not conducive to
concentration. These environments appear cheaper for the bottom line.

I work from home a couple of days a week. On my own team, I also have some of
the highest personal productivity according to our internal measures. Do I
think there is correlation? Absolutely. I am completely aware that I am more
productive at home than in the office because of the negative factors of my
cubicle environment.

The irony of being cheap about physical work environments is that developer
time is really freaking expensive, and the loss of productivity in teams
greatly outweighs some office space rent. Unfortunately, it is really hard to
quantify lost productivity in dollars so The Furniture Police often win.

DeMarco and Lister discuss more elements of work environments than just
physical space. They spend time writing about people, elements of strong teams,
pathogens that prevent good teams from forming, management style, and other
topics. By absorbing these topics, Peopleware helped me acknowledge the
deficiencies in my own office situation. I knew I didn't like portions of my
office life, but I couldn't articulate all of the reasons why. Although the
book's material is geared towards what *managers* can do to improve the
workplace, every office worker could benefit from reading this book. I highly
recommend it.
